---
layout: post
title: 'Book Report: The Magicians'
created: 1339724535
---
<p>This book was <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=syoiGCYwTNc" target="_blank">introduced by sword and laser</a> as “Harry Potter if he drank real bear instead of butter bear”. That much is certain, with a little bit of Narnia thrown in. Quentin is a typical teenager, struggling with his identity, that is gifted in math, and has enough OCD to stick with the regimen of practicing “magic” (card tricks and pulling coins out of ears) to become a passable side-show at any circus. Passing this off as “real magic” to “real magicians” provides a bit of comedy in the early goings of the book.</p>  <p>All in all I enjoyed the Magicians. I think Grossman is trying to paint a world somewhat opposing to the Spider-man mantra of “With great power comes great responsibility.” In other words, all of the magicians in the book have all of this power, with no reason to use that power responsibly. There is no great evil, no villain to fight, nor even minor injustice that will suffice to bring their attention to bear on the problem. These magicians really have no problem to solve, which ends up being their problem in the book. </p>  <p>Quentin is struggling with the same question we all have: “Why are we here?” In his case, this question is even more complex because he has all of these powers and abilities, and no reason to use them.</p>  <p>The added humor of poking fun at Harry Potter and Narnia give fans of those series an interesting “call-back” while being engrossed in an entirely different world. I give the book 4 out of 5 stars.</p>
